# Ian Harris's Anti-Résumé

Success and completion have never been words I could use to describe events in my life. I have had a very repetitive experience of never completing anything, and this has been an extremely difficult rut to get out of. As of the last year, I have been attempting to change this. Part of this has been reading (actually, listening to) many books that have been of interest to me in the past. One of those books was *The Black Swan* by Nassim Nicholas Taleb. This book was hugely helpful to me, and has stirred up some recent motivation (and hopefully determination and discipline). To begin my attempt at success, I am creating my interpretation of Taleb's "anti-résumé."

## Prelude

What I will be doing with this anti-résumé is creating a list of what I have not achieved, not learned, and failed at. I currently have a reasonably useful (i.e. I get calls from it) résumé, but it's not very interesting to me. I don't feel a sense of accomplishment from it. I'm given the chance to prove my worth to potential employers because of it, but it's not an accomplishment. None of the bullet points on my résumé are even things that really give me a sense of pride or achievement or self-worth. Perhaps I think too poorly of myself. Perhaps I really haven't achieved anything. I am not currently introspective enough to know the answer. But for now I will be attempting to learn more about myself, the world, and my passion of computers.

This will be an ever growing and shrinking list. It will not act as a queue or a to-do list, or a set of deadlines to be met. This anti-résumé will be a long list of things. I currently am unaware of a good/reasonable/effective way of organizing it. Maybe there is no good way. As the list grows, I hope to not only learn to be more humble and have more humility about my own knowledge, but more importantly I want to achieve more. I plan on adding a huge list of subjects, projects, ideas, and more to this list and continually learning and doing more about it. Each "thing" will have associated projects, reading, and writing with it until I feel comfortable marking it as done, moving it somewhere else, or doing something else I can't yet foresee.

Most importantly, this is - in case it's not obvious - a massive work in progress. It will always be a work in progress, at that. Learning is not something I hope to ever be unable to pursue. The collection of knowledge and, more importantly, the collection of "un-knowledge" (i.e. things I have yet to learn), is really my passion. I want to create something that I can wear as a badge of honor. I want to show myself and others the things I am proud of. I want to be courageous and have the ability to say, "Hey, look at this! Look at all of the things I *know* I do not know. Look at how much learning I get to do. Look at what I am still able to achieve in this life!"