# On Procrastination

I've long been aware of how much I procrastinate. I do it constantly, all day every day. I'm doing it right now by writing this. I should be doing many other things, such as math problems, reading, practicing writing (I suppose I *am* writing, but it's not about what I should be writing), solving programming problems, working on my (anti-)résumé, doing the dishes, and whatever else I've put off for so long that I've forgot. It's a real problem.

The thing that interests me about it is that I feel as though my procrastination is a skill that's been improving subconsciously for years now. I've gotten better at tricking myself into not doing the task at hand. It has become difficult for me to even recognize it, although I think I'm improving (I know that writing this isn't what I should really be doing right now, but it's better than playing video games or watching television, I think - maybe I'm lying to myself again, but that's getting too complicated now). An example:

In school when I was younger, it was pretty obvious when I would put off school work or activities that I was supposed to finish. I would just turn on the TV or play video games or anything other than homework. But I think I *knew* that I shouldn't be doing that. I would hide it or lie about what I was doing or what I did, and I *understood* why my parents would be upset when they found out what I was doing instead of homework. I wasn't shocked or offended when I got in trouble for playing video games instead of doing homework - I knew that punishment was imminent, but I did it anyway. But at that age, the punishment wasn't worse than the pleasure I got from playing video games or watching TV, so I suppose I learned to game the system a bit.

The important part is that I was actively aware of my surroundings and knew that I wasn't supposed to be doing the procrastinating activity (e.g. playing video games) instead of the task at hand (e.g. doing homework). After years of this, I started to fool myself, and maybe even fool others by believing myself so much. At some point I started reading textbooks (*The Elements of Computing Systems*, the Dragon Book, etc.) and would consider that a good use of my time. Perhaps they were useful reads (although I didn't take much away from anything I read), but the important thing is that I wasn't doing my homework, and I didn't even realize I was doing something wrong. Over the last few days I've been reading *Learn You a Haskell for Great Good!*. I enjoyed the book for the most part, and I think I learned a good amount about Haskell. I started *Real World Haskell* after finishing LYAH. I also watched several hours of Simon Peyton Jones talking about Haskell, some videos of Brian Beckman, Philip Wadler, Erik Meijer, and others, "learning" about functional programming. I put "learning" in quotes there because I mostly just read the book and typed out some of the examples, but I didn't go further. I watched hours of video from very smart people that had extremely useful information, but I didn't actually do anything with what I learned. Perhaps at some point I will, but the payoff so far seems negligible.

A better use of my time would be continuing my daily activities I was doing before, I think. For a short while (a couple weeks maybe) I was **doing math problems** on Khan Academy before and after work, watching lectures and **taking notes**, and **writing real programs** for a MOOC. These are good skills to work on, I think, and I was doing well, temporarily. But I quickly got myself into the trap of "X is difficult or uninteresting or not challenging. I should do Y instead," where *Y* is something like "learn Haskell," or "learn category theory," or "turn my phone into a media server," or, "..."

I need to work more on recognizing when I'm straying from the path. I've had years of tricking myself into procrasting that it's hard to see when I'm doing it. I'm too good at lying to myself. I need to be more humble and have more humility. I want to learn more so that I can do the things I think are awesome. I want to be able to write large programs like the ones that I'm impressed by on a daily basis. I want to be able to focus on something for a long amount of time and have it be useful and call it "finished" ("finished" is never really finished, but it's usable - there are always more features or bug fixes or whatever). I want to be a real programmer, not just continue to dig away at the surface of dozens of different aspects and never improve in any area. I'm a bit of a jack of all trades and (definitely) a master of none. I don't want to be a master of none.
